Feature/gcloud-create-project (#236)
devonfw/hangar: documentation/gcloud/setup-project.asciidoc

== Setup Google Cloud project

> By the end of this guide a new project in Google Cloud will be created.

Reviewer: We do more things. Try to answer this question: A project with what? Permissions to APIs and such. Try to explain it in plain but concise words.

== Prerequisites

> · Install the https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install?hl=en[Google Cloud CLI].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Install the https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install?hl=en[Google Cloud CLI].
```

== Creating the Google Cloud project

There are two ways of creating a Google Cloud project:
[loweralpha]

> . Create it manually using the web interface following https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects#console[Google Cloud official guide].

Reviewer: If the user does that, will be missing some APIs, you should mention them for it to be a valid alternative.

. Create it in an automated way using the provided script, as shown below.
 
== Creating Google Cloud project using provided script

The script located at `scripts/accounts/gcloud/create-project.sh` enables you to create a new Google Cloud project or configure an existing one.

== Usage

```
create-project.sh \
  -n <name> \
  [-d <description>] \
  [-f <folder>] \
  [-o <organization>] \
  [-b <billing account>]
```

== Flags

```
-n    [Required] Name of the new project. (6-30 chars, lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens)
-d    [Optional] Description for the new project.
-f    [Optional] Numeric ID of the folder for which the project will be configured.

> -o    [Optional] Numeric ID of the organization for which the project will be configured.

Reviewer: Remove [Optional] to be consistent with other guides.

> -b    [Optional] Billing account. If not specified, won't be able to enable some services.

Reviewer: For me this is a required one, otherwise we won't be able to proceed. (move it below name, then)

```

== Example

> `./create-project.sh -n "project-test-123" -d "This is a sample application" -f 12345 -o 2048`

Reviewer: Better skip folder and organization (if you want to keep it simple) and put the billing one.

== Setup Google Cloud project

By the end of this guide a new project in Google Cloud will be created. Billing and the required APIs to perform tasks like repository or artifact registry creation and using CloudRun will be enabled.

== Prerequisites

. Install the https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install?hl=en[Google Cloud CLI].

== Creating the Google Cloud project

There are two ways of creating a Google Cloud project:
[loweralpha]
. Create it and enable biling and APIs manually using the web interface:
.. Create the project following the https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects#console[Creating a project guide].
.. Create a billing account and enable it in the project following the https://cloud.google.com/billing/docs/how-to/modify-project#enable_billing_for_a_project[Enable billing for a project guide]

> .. Enable ```Cloud Source Repositories API, Cloud Run Admin API, Artifact Registry API``` following the https://cloud.google.com/endpoints/docs/openapi/enable-api#enabling_an_api[Enablig an API guide]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Enable `Cloud Source Repositories`, `Cloud Run Admin`, and `Artifact Registry` APIs following https://cloud.google.com/endpoints/docs/openapi/enable-api#console[official guide]
```

. Create it in an automated way using the provided script, as shown below.
 
== Creating Google Cloud project using provided script

> The script located at `scripts/accounts/gcloud/create-project.sh` enables you to create a new Google Cloud project or configure an existing one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script located at `scripts/accounts/gcloud/create-project.sh` enables you to create and configure a new Google Cloud project.
```

It does not allow to configure an existing one

== Usage

```
create-project.sh \
  -n <name> \
  -b <billing account> \
  [-d <description>] \
  [-f <folder>] \
  [-o <organization>]
  
```

== Flags

```
-n    [Required] Name of the new project. (6-30 chars, lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens)
-b    [Required] Billing account. If not specified, won't be able to enable some services.
-d               Description for the new project.
-f               Numeric ID of the folder for which the project will be configured.

> -o               Numeric ID of the organization for which the project will be configured.
> 
> 
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
-o               Numeric ID of the organization for which the project will be configured.
```
````
